Requirements
------------
You will need a C compiler.
I use gcc 5.3.0 and 4.1.2, but the code should compile with any
standards compliant compiler.
Gcc is available at http://gcc.gnu.org.


Procedure
---------
1. Unpack the archive if you have not done so already:

	tar -xf pdlzip[version].tar.lz
or
	lzip -cd pdlzip[version].tar.lz | tar -xf -

This creates the directory ./pdlzip[version] containing the source from
the main archive.

2. Change to pdlzip directory and run configure.
   (Try 'configure --help' for usage instructions).

	cd pdlzip[version]
	./configure

3. Run make.

	make

4. Optionally, type 'make check' to run the tests that come with pdlzip.

5. Type 'make install' to install the program and any data files and
   documentation.

   Or type 'make install-compress', which additionally compresses the
   man page after installation. (Installing compressed docs may become
   the default in the future).

   You can install only the program or the man page by typing 'make
   install-bin' or 'make install-man' respectively.

   Instead of 'make install', you can type 'make install-as-lzip' to
   install the program and any data files and documentation, and link
   the program to the name 'lzip'.


Another way
-----------
You can also compile pdlzip into a separate directory.
To do this, you must use a version of 'make' that supports the 'VPATH'
variable, such as GNU 'make'. 'cd' to the directory where you want the
object files and executables to go and run the 'configure' script.
'configure' automatically checks for the source code in '.', in '..' and
in the directory that 'configure' is in.

'configure' recognizes the option '--srcdir=DIR' to control where to
look for the sources. Usually 'configure' can determine that directory
automatically.

After running 'configure', you can run 'make' and 'make install' as
explained above.


Copyright (C) 2010-2016 Antonio Diaz Diaz.

This file is free documentation: you have unlimited permission to copy,
distribute and modify it.
