This file describes the contents of the fpp delivery and some brief 
instructions on how to build and use fpp.

fpp is a source language preprocessor for FORTRAN 77 and Fortran 90.

Contents:
---------

The top level directory for the fpp delivery consists of the following
files:

README          - this file
fpp_spec        - the specification of fpp
fpp_license.ps  - the fpp license agreement (PostScript)
Makefile        - makefile to build fpp
man             - directory that has the fpp man page
sparc           - directory where fpp for sparc-Solaris2.x is built
src             - fpp source code


Building fpp:
-------------

To build fpp run 'make [dir]', where dir is the target architecture under which
you want to build. For example, 'make sparc ' builds fpp to run on SPARC 
processors under Solaris 2. To build fpp for a different architecture, follow 
the Makefile for 'sparc' and create your own target.

Documentation:
--------------

Two documents for fpp are provided:
    fpp_spec       is the complete specifications of fpp.
    man/man1/fpp.1 is the fpp man page.

License:
-------

The on-line software license agreement to use fpp is in the Postscript file
fpp_license.ps. Please read that carefully before proceeding to use
fpp.

Note that you are granted the rights to modify the Software and to
license and further distribute the modified version. However, you are
required to post the modified software, in its entirety, to the Internet
for anonymous FTP access at netlib.

Our intention for this restriction is to preserve the fpp specification
and have one, common, specification for fpp. However, we are aware of the
requirement to modify the sources to integrate with your compilation system.
In such cases you may not be willing to make the changes publicly available
for fear of exposing your internal interfaces. We are willing to exempt
you from making such changes available to the public. Please send mail
to fpp-coordinator@sun.com to seek this exemption.

What's new in release 1.1:
--------------------------

1. A new flag -c_com={yes|no} has been added. Users now have the option to 
   prohibit the recognition of C style comments. Default value is yes.

2. A new flag -macro={yes|no_com|no} has been added. By default macros
   are now expanded within comments. Users can turn off macro expansion
   in comments or turn it off at all.

3. A new flag -V has been added: fpp -V issues a version number.

4. Some bugs are fixed.


Comments:
---------

Send all comments to fpp-comments@devpro.Eng.sun.com


Responses to earlier comments:
------------------------------

1. Fpp crashes due to attempt to modify a literal constant.
   Response: fixed.

2. The following line of code causes problems for fpp:

   C  Here is an unpaired quotation mark: '

   Response: not an issue. Fpp doesn't complain if the source is in
   fixed format. It does complain if the source is in free format
   where C-style comments are not recognized.

3. Fpp splits all trailing comments off of their original line and onto
   the following one.
   Response: fixed.

fpp: v1.1 Mar 18 1997
